Earlier, we considered the expression at Philippians 4.7, the peace of God that surpasses all
understanding.
That is, the tranquility and calmness we enjoy because we have a close friendship with
Jehovah.
What a remarkable blessing.
But although we enjoy God-given peace, our life in this system of things is not problem-free,
is it?
No, I'm 34 and 19, it acknowledges as much when it says, many are the hardships of the
righteous one.
But Jehovah rescues him from them all.
We may experience family opposition, persecution, war, natural disasters, or severe illnesses.
But none of these hardships can separate us from God's love.
Neither death nor life, nor angels, nor governments, nor things now here, nor things
to come.
None of these things can rob us of the peace Jehovah gives.
And yet there is something that can.
Please turn with me to Isaiah chapter 32, verse 17.
And as we read this text, notice that it refers to peace as a result.
Do you think of peace that way as a result?
If peace is a result, what causes it?
Isaiah 32, 17.
The result of true righteousness will be peace.
And the fruitage of true righteousness will be lasting tranquility and security.
What a beautiful expression, lasting tranquility and security.
Again, from what does it result?
True righteousness.
What if righteousness no longer mattered to us?
What if a person concluded it makes no difference how I live or what sacrifices I make?
If I'm going to suffer hardships either way, I might as well do whatever I please while
I can?
What's wrong with that thinking?
Let it show appreciation for peace and all that Jehovah has done to make it possible.
Peace is a result.
And behind every result is a cause.
If we want peace, we have to pursue righteousness.
An unrighteous person cannot be at peace with God.
Serious transgressions put a strain on a person's relationship with God.
All King David's words found at Psalm 38-3, sensing Jehovah's disapproval, he wrote,
"...there is no peace within my bones because of my sin.
Inevitably the unrighteous person will reap what he sowed and lose his peace."
What is righteousness?
And how do we pursue it?
It's righteousness is what we have or what we show when we do what is right according
to Jehovah's standards.
And those standards are not just rules we follow, but principles that guide the way we deal
with each other.
As universal sovereign and creator, Jehovah God determines what is righteous.
Isn't that what was represented by the tree of the knowledge of good and bad in the
Garden of Eden?
As a result of Jehovah's command to abstain from its fruit, that tree represented God's
right to determine for his creatures what is good and what is bad for them.
And although Jehovah has given humans free will, the right to choose, he has not granted
humans, not even perfect ones, the right to set the standard for what is righteous and
what is not.
Now notice once again that Isaiah 32-17 says that the result of true righteousness will
be peace.
That term, twice, true righteousness, not everything called righteousness is true righteousness.
Many people view righteousness as just a personal virtue achieved by following the rules.
At Matthew 23-28, Jesus said that the Pharisees appeared righteous on the outside, but inside
they were lawless.
Ecclesiastes 7-16 talks about those who think their standards are more righteous even
than gods.
And at Romans 10-3 Paul talked about people who seek to establish their own righteousness.
But false piety, overrighteousness and self-righteousness are not what Isaiah 32-17 is talking about.
Today many argue for the acceptance of conduct that Jehovah forbids.
They may even find support from a world already alienated from God.
But wide acceptance in a growing community does not redefine righteousness.
None of that is true righteousness.
Our loving creator sets the standard for what is right, not our feelings, not the community
at large.
Now while you're here in Isaiah, please turn to chapter 48.
In order to be viewed as righteous, we have to trust that Jehovah should set the standard
of right and wrong.
In addition, we must prove by our speech and actions that we agree with Jehovah's standards
and obey him.
And that takes real courage in a wicked world.
But when we do that, we enjoy the result.
Here's what it says at Isaiah, chapter 48, verses 17 and 18.
This is what Jehovah says.
You are repurchaser, the holy one of Israel, I Jehovah am your God.
The one teaching you to benefit yourself, or as the footnote says, teaching you for your
own good.
The one guiding you in the way you should walk.
If only you would pay attention to my commandments, then your peace would become just like a river
and your righteousness like the waves of the sea.
Paying attention to Jehovah's commandments results in two things.
First, our peace will become just like a river, serene, abundant, ongoing.
Second, our righteousness will be like the waves of the sea.
Remember your last trip to the beach?
As you stood there on the shore, perhaps on a high hill overlooking the ocean, watching
the waves roll in one after the other, just as they have for thousands of years, could
you feel a sense of constancy?
Jehovah says that our course of doing what is right can be just like that.
He will guide us in the path of righteousness.
He will bless us with unending peace.
In the process, we learn through experience how Jehovah's wise and loving ways truly
benefit us personally.
But if we refuse to do that, we learn what agitation and discord truly mean.
As verse 22 says, there is no peace, says Jehovah, for the wicked.
It's not a heavy-handed threat to manipulate human behavior as if Jehovah needed to do
that.
It's a fact, a truth, a timeless principle.
God is love.
He teaches us for our own good, and the result, if we pay attention, is peace.
Isaiah 48, 17, and 18.
And these verses assure us that imperfect humans truly can have a righteous standing
with God.
Let's explore that further.
Do you recall the very first time the word righteous is used in the Bible?
Turn with me, please, to Genesis 6.
Now you likely recognize this as the account about Noah, a Noah lived in an extremely wicked
world.
During his lifetime, rebel angels left their assignments in heaven, materialized, married
human women, and fathered hybrid offspring who became violent giants.
Now, how did all of that wickedness and violence affect Jehovah?
According to Genesis 6, 6, his heart was saddened, which is a remarkable thing to contemplate,
isn't it?
Jehovah's feelings are affected by our decisions because he cares for us.
That ancient world became so wicked that Jehovah decided it must be destroyed.
And yet right in the midst of all this depravity, Noah showed a different spirit.
Notice what it says at Genesis 6 verses 8 and 9.
But Noah found favor in the eyes of Jehovah.
This is the history of Noah.
Noah was a righteous man, there it is, and why was he described as righteous?
He proved himself faultless among his contemporaries.
Yes, Noah was not like the rebel angels or their offspring or like degraded human society.
Noah walked with the true God.
And thus the second time we find the word righteous is at Genesis 7 and verse 1.
After that Jehovah said to Noah, go into the ark, you and all your household because
you are the one I have found to be righteous before me among this generation.
Because of Noah's righteousness, he and his family survived the flood.
The worship Jehovah on a cleansed earth.
And after the waters subsided, and the family emerged from the ark, they witnessed a splendid
sight, one never before observed a serene, multi-colored arch in the sky, a rainbow, a reassuring
indication of peace with God, peace, resulting from righteousness.
And where does the word righteous appear next in the Bible?
In the account about Abraham, notably in his famous conversation with Jehovah found
at Genesis chapter 18, where Jehovah promised Abraham that if he found as few as 10 righteous
people in the city of Sodom, he would not destroy that city.
Now what was it that distinguished Abraham as righteous in that moral climate?
As you read Genesis chapter 12 through 22, you get the sense that Abraham was a man of great
faith, unwavering faith.
He was ready to do whatever Jehovah asked of him.
Now citing Genesis chapter 15 and verse 6 and other texts, James 223 says that Abraham
put faith in Jehovah, and it was counted to him as righteousness.
And he came to be called Jehovah's Friend, Jehovah's Friend, peace with God, resulting
from righteousness.
Now what about God's people today?
In turn with me please to Isaiah chapter 60, Isaiah chapter 60, Jehovah refers to Noah
and Abraham as righteous.
But what would he say about you and me?
Well, notice what it says toward the end of this chapter, Isaiah 60, verses 21,
and 22, and all your people will be righteous.
They will possess the land forever.
They are the sprout that I planted, the work of my hands for me to be beautified, the
little one will become a thousand, and the small one a mighty nation I myself Jehovah
will speed it up in its own time.
Just prospective members of the great crowd have been declared righteous as friends of
God, as Abraham was.
In Jehovah's eyes they are, as it says in Revelation chapter 7 and verse 9, dressed in white
robes.
Today, they are serving alongside God's spirit- anointed ones who were declared righteous for life.
Jehovah, our repurchaser, the holy one of Israel has bought us back from bondage to sin
and death through the ransom sacrifice of Jesus Christ, and thus with faith in the ransom
sacrifice of Jesus Christ, imperfect people are considered righteous in the sight of God.
Now in calling us righteous, Jehovah God by means of Jesus has done something for us
that we could not do for ourselves in our imperfect condition, but does that mean that
we can do no wrong?
No, it does not mean that.
In order to maintain our peace, we must cooperate with Jehovah.
Turn with me please to Romans chapter 1.
Now it like Noah and Abraham, we live in a wicked and violent world where we are exposed
to a spirit of disobedience, Satan wants us to become part of this world by adopting
its unrighteous standards.
In the world, sexual immorality is practiced without shame, homosexuals flaunt their conduct,
but Jehovah tells us that homosexual acts are unrighteous.
God specifically warned the Israelites against this and other forms of immorality.
Leviticus chapter 18 and verse 22 says that homosexual acts are detestable.
Does Jehovah still find it so offensive?
Well, notice what he inspired for both Jews and non-Jews in the Christian Greek Scriptures
here at Romans chapter 1 verses 26 and 27.
That is why God gave them over to disgraceful sexual passion.
For their females changed to the natural use of themselves into one contrary to nature.
Likewise also the males left the natural use of the female and became violently inflamed
in their lust toward one another, males with males, working with his obscene and receiving
in themselves the full penalty which was due for their error.
So Jehovah has not changed.
According to the Creator, homosexual acts constitute disgraceful obscene error.
Some would disagree.
As verse 28 points out, such ones do not consider it worthwhile to acknowledge God, but with
what result?
As it says there, a disapproved mental state, just the opposite of peace.
And merely approving of unrighteous conduct, displeases Jehovah.
Notice how this is indicated in verse 32.
Although these know full well the righteous decree of God that those practicing such things
are deserving of death, they not only keep on doing them, but also approve of those
practicing them.
Still, we do not hate individuals who practice unrighteousness, nor do we judge them.
On the contrary, we share the good news with them.
We remember that we were all born with the same infirmities and have the same sinful tendencies,
but we also have the same inherent spiritual need.
And thus we recognize that others can have the same peace, the same privileges, and the
same prospects we enjoy, if.
They pay attention to Jehovah.
First Timothy 2, 3, and 4 says that God's will is that all sorts of people should be saved
and come to an accurate knowledge of truth.
And people practicing all manner of unrighteousness have accepted the truth.
That is what some of you were, 1 Corinthians 6, 11 says.
So we communicate impartially with all our neighbors, but we hate unrighteous conduct.
And we refuse to compromise Bible principles.
Now sometimes moral issues become the center of heated political debates.
We avoid getting drawn into such controversies.
But now, in practical terms, what might that look like?
In the following video, notice how adults can respond effectively when questioned on highly
controversial issues.
There you are.
Did you both get the e-mail survey I sent?
Did you both come, right?
I must have missed it.
I was on calls all morning.
What's this about?
The whole office is leaving early.
We're going downtown to support the march for gay rights.
She won't go.
Why?
It's against our religion.
Some of her people came by my house, and when I asked, they said, your church will support
gay marriage.
Irene?
It's true.
As Jehovah's Witnesses, we hold to the Bible standard on marriage, which is only between
a man and a woman.
And we remain politically neutral.
That's such ignorant thinking.
I understand it's a sensitive subject.
I have a daughter who deserves her rights.
Trust me, Amber.
As one of Jehovah's Witnesses, we believe everyone has a right to choose how they live.
And I would never force my beliefs on anyone, but you won't go.
Just as I would never force my beliefs on you, all I ask is the same respect.
And no, I won't be going.
I have to go back to work.
Look, obviously, Irene, I don't agree with your perspective.
But I do appreciate that you're not pushing on anyone else.
Thank you.
In contrast, with the majority of mankind who are divided, true Christians are united.
We loyally support Jehovah's right to rule.
We don't set the standards, and we're not trying to solve the world's problems on our
own.
We fully support God's kingdom.
As we observed in the video, moral and political issues might be brought up in the workplace.
But more often, our young ones, even very young ones, are confronted with these same topics.
How will they respond?
Are your young ones ready?
As you watch the next video, notice how Olivia defends Jehovah's Righteous Standards.
Great discussion today, everyone.
Remember, midterms of this Friday, no excuses.
That includes you, Jordan.
You were noticeably silent during our discussion today, Olivia.
I was.
I guess I just didn't have much to say.
Are you concerned about gay rights?
Um, well, it seems like a political issue, and I say neutral when it comes political stuff.
But it's not a political issue.
This is a human rights issue.
Mr. Dallas, she's like crazy religious.
Hey, there's nothing wrong with it.
No, you don't understand.
Jehovah's Witnesses hate everybody that is in straight.
That's not true.
We don't hate anyone.
I've spoken with your people before.
They seem big on equality.
We are.
The Bible says God isn't partial, so we believe that everyone should be treated fairly.
Good.
So I assume you have gay members in your church?
No, we don't.
But I thought you just said everyone should be treated equal.
I'm confused.
Ah, call that.
Jordan, don't you have a class to get to?
As I was saying, how is that not a little hypocritical?
Saying that you love everyone, and then excluding certain people?
Honestly, Mr. Dallas, I've wondered the same thing.
OK.
And?
Well, I researched it in the Bible, and I realized that God accepts all people,
but He doesn't accept all conduct.
What does that mean?
It means that you can't be abusing drugs, you can't be stealing,
or being violent, and still be a witness.
There's just certain actions that God just doesn't accept.
Including how someone expresses their sexuality?
In some cases, yes, we follow God's standards,
not having sex without being married.
Well, if that's how you feel, that's your right.
Personally, it seems a tad archaic to me,
but to each their own.
Hey, does the Bible really say all that?
Yeah, it does.
OK, maybe you could show me some time.
Yeah, for sure, awesome.
So we can expect future installments in this saga.
But did you notice how Olivia was able to defend Jehovah's Right
to standards?
She kept her peaceful spirit, didn't she?
She acknowledged that she had the same question as the teacher,
but she had done further research on the subject.
And did you appreciate how she subtly
showed that Jehovah's standards benefit
both the individual and the community?
As examples, she highlighted the avoidance of drug abuse
and theft.
Values she knew her teacher would appreciate.
Parents are your young ones able to explain why we do
or don't do certain things.
Do you know how your children really
feel about Jehovah's standards?
Are they obedient simply to avoid making you mad?
If so, will that truly be enough?
Encourage your young ones to prove to themselves
why Jehovah's standards are wise.
Help them to see how they can explain their choice
to live by Jehovah's standards.
Teach them how to resist pressure to follow the world.
We are so thankful that even during these critical times,
hard to deal with, we can enjoy the inner peace
that Jehovah gives to the righteous.
But let's remind ourselves of what
Jehovah promises to bring about once Satan's unrighteous system
is removed.
Turn with me, please, to Psalm 37.
Here in these familiar verses, we find
a beautiful description of what is to come.
And notice once again, how the Bible makes
the correlation between peace and righteousness.
Psalm 37.29.
Do you have it?
What does it say?
Who will possess the earth, the righteous,
and for how long will they live on it, forever?
And then according to verse 11, what
will they find there?
Peace.
The result of true righteousness will be peace.
And how much peace will they find a little peace,
just personal or family peace?
Remember, the righteous already had peace with God,
even when wicked people still existed.
But what will Jehovah provide to all those who
continue loving him?
The abundance of peace.
And how will you feel about that?
Delighted or exquisitely delighted?
So stick with it, dear friends.
During this convention, be on the lookout for the connection
between peace and righteousness.
Continue on the course of righteousness.
Help others to find the way of peace.
In that way, we can enjoy peace with Jehovah now,
throughout the remainder of these last days,
and on into the future when Jesus rules
as king over a cleanser in which the righteous will flourish.
And peace will abound.